James Bertrand, James Brock, Robert Coomber
Dr. Hooper
Artificial Intelligence
24 October 2018

Same Game Proposal

We have chosen to model the Same Game from Simon Tatham's Portable Puzzle Collection.
It is a game where a user attempts to remove colored squares of the same color.
A minimum of two same-colored squares must be adjacent to each other either horizontally or vertically.
The goal is to try and remove all squares, and an additional parameter is to maximize a score by removing
portions with a large amount of squares at the same time.
When a box is removed, the remaining boxes move downwards to fill in empty spaces, and then leftwards when
at the bottom row.
We intend to make the game interactive by allowing the user to create and play puzzles.
We intend to optimize the algorithm by using a heuristic that earns a score based on the amount of blocks
removed in a single move, in order to complete the puzzle with the highest score.

A comparison between the implemented algorithm and the optimized algorithm with a heuristic will be performed,
using evaluation parameters such as memory and time requirements, and the number of moves required to solve the puzzle.
This problem is significant because it can show how to optimize a search algorithm in a fully-observable,
discrete, deterministic environment, like the travelling salesman problem or a delivery route planner.
The state of the environment changes per move and affects every future move.
We plan to implement either uniform cost search or breadth-first search, and a best first search with a
heuristic function, running instances at various search depths for the agent to choose its most optimal move.

Bibliography

Buchweitz, David. “SameGame.” SameGame, www.samegame.info/.

	This website contains information on the game. It describes the games origins, as well as
the rules and operations of the game. This will be useful when developing the code that
describes the game operation and problem description to the search algorithm.


Murrell, Hugh. “State Space Representation and Search.” University of Kwazulu-Natal,
www.cs.ukzn.ac.za/~hughm/ai/notes/searches.pdf.

	A PDF that provides an overview and analysis of how to describe problems for search
algorithms, as well as pseudocode for each search algorithm. It also provides examples
of the search algorithms working on other famous artificial intelligence puzzles and
Problems. This article was useful in helping us to decide which algorithms to implement
for our project.


“Same Game.” Same Game, from Simon Tatham's Portable Puzzle Collection, Chiark, 7 Oct. 2018,
www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/puzzles/js/samegame.html.

	An interactive web app that allows the user to play different board size and number of
colors variations of the game. The user can also specify different scoring algorithms.
The website will assist us in determining how we wish to present the game to the user,
how the boards are randomly generated, and how different scoring algorithms are
implemented.
